# A4

## Q1

### a)

$$
\Sigma_a = \{\neg(u\approx v)\}
$$

This is only possible if $u, v\in\mathcal{D}$ are not the same, which by definition
is only possible if $\mathcal D$ contains at least 2 elements.

### b)

$$
\Sigma_b = \{ \exists x\exists y\exists z\exists w\forall u(\neg(x\approx y)\land\neg(x\approx z)\land\neg(x\approx w)\land\neg(y\approx z)\land\neg(y\approx w)\land\neg(z\approx w)\land \\
((u\approx x)\lor(u\approx y)\lor(u\approx z)\lor(u\approx w)))\}
$$

This formula in $\Sigma_b$ states that given 4 distinct elements $x,y,z,w\in\mathcal{D}$, there
any 5th element $u\in\mathcal{D}$ will be equal to one of $x,y,z,w$, meaning that there is
exactly 4 elements.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Q2

### a)

Base case: $n=1$

By definition of $\Sigma_1$, we have $\exists xF_1(x)$

Inductive Step:

Case 1: $n$ is even

Assume $\Sigma\vDash\exists x(\neg F_n(x))$ is true.

Let $k$ be even. Then $\Sigma\vDash\exists x(\neg F_k(x))$

Then, for $k+1$, we have from $\Sigma_3$, $(\exists x (\neg F_j(x))\to\exists xF_{j+1}(x))\implies \exists xF_{k+1}(x)$

Since $k+1$ is even, then from induction, for every odd $n\geq 1$, we have $\exists xF_n(x)$

Case 2: $n$ is odd

Assume $\Sigma\vDash\exists xF_n(x)$.

Let $k$ be odd. Then $\Sigma\vDash\exists xF_k(x))$

Then, for $k+1$, we have from $\Sigma_2$, $\forall x(F_1(x)\to(\neg F_{i+1}(x))\implies\exists x(\neg F_{k+1}(x))$.

Since $k+1$ is even, from induction, for every even $n\geq 2$, we have $\exists x(\neg F_n(x))$.

### b)

We can follow a similar proof to the one above, except replace $\vDash$ with $vdash$. However,
the $\implies$ is no longer trivial since the LHS of the $\to$ is no longer 1.

Instead, we will use the following as for the inductive step.

Case 1: $n$ is even.

Assume $\Sigma\vdash\exists x(\neg F_n(x))$. Let $k$ be even and let our assumption be true for $k$.

Then, we have $\exists x(\neg F_k(x))\to\exists xF_{k+1}(x))$. Since we have
$\Sigma\vdash\exists x(\neg F_k(x))$, then $\Sigma\vdash \exists xF_{k+1}(x)$ by modus ponens.

Case 2: $n$ is odd.

Assume $\Sigma\vdash\exists xF_n(x)$.

Let $k$ be odd. Then $\Sigma\vdash\exists xF_k(x))$

Then, since $\exists x(F_k(x))$, by modus ponens we have $\Sigma\vdash\exists(\neg F_{k+1}(x))$

### c)

Let $F_i$, $i\geq 1$ is odd be interpreted as $u$ is odd. And let $F_j$, $j\geq 2$ is even
be interpreted as $u$ is even. Then $\Sigma$ is consistent.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Q3

Consider the following counter example:

Let $\mathcal {D} = \{u, w\}$. Consider the following truth valuation $v$ such that
$A(u, w)^v=1$, $A(w, u)^v=0$ and $A(w, w)^v=1$ and $A(u,u)^v=0$.

Then,

$\forall x\exists y(A(x, y)\to A(y,x))$ can be proven using the following truth table:

| x | y | $\forall x\exists y(A(x, y)\to A(y,x))$ |
| -- | -- | -- |
| w | u | 1 |
| u | u | 1 |

Thus, this stands.

However, $\exists y\forall x(A(x,y)\to A(y,x))$ does not hold:


| x | y | $\exists y\forall x(A(x, y)\to A(y,x))$ |
| -- | -- | -- |
| u | w | 0 |
| w | u | 1 |
| u | u | 0 |
| w | w | 1 |

This does not hold. Thus, they are not tautologically equivalent.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Q4

### a)

Let $\Sigma = \{\exists x(A(x)\to B(w))\}$

$$
\begin{align}
\Sigma, \forall xA(x) & \vdash \exists x(A(x)\to B(w)) & (\in) \\
\Sigma, \forall xA(x) & \vdash \forall xA(x) & (\in) \\
\Sigma, \forall xA(x) & \vdash A(s)\to B(w) & (2, \forall -) \\
\Sigma, \forall xA(x) & \vdash B(w) & (3, \to -) \\
\Sigma & \vdash \forall xA(x)\to B(w) & (2, 4, \to +)
\end{align}
$$

### b)

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Q5

### a)

$\forall x\forall y((C(x, y)\land F(x))\to H(y)), \forall x(G(x)\land F(x)), \forall x\forall y((G(x)\land C(y, x))\to G(y))\vdash \forall(G(x)\to H(x))$

### b)

First, negate the conclusion. $\neg\forall x(G(x)\to H(x)) |-| \exists x(G(x)\land\neg H(x))$.

Then, add to set of premises,

$\forall x\forall y((C(x, y)\land F(x))\to H(y)), \forall x(G(x)\land F(x)), \forall x\forall y((G(x)\land C(y, x))\to G(y)), (G(a)\land\neg H(a))$.

Then, drop the universal quantifiers to yield the set of clauses:

$\{(C(x,y)\land F(x))\to H(y),G(x)\land F(x), G(x)\land C(y,x)\to G(y), G(a)\land\neg H(a)\}$

Now, we can use resolution as follows:

$$
\begin{align}
\neg C(x,y)\lor\neg F(x)\lor H(y) & & (\text{neg of 1}) \\
G(x)\land F(x) & \\
\neg G(x)\lor\neg C(y,x)\lor G(y) & & (\text{neg of 3}) \\
G(a)\land\neg H(a) \\
\neg C(x,y)\lor H(y) & & (\text{resolve 6 and 7}) \\
\neg G(x)\lor\neg C(y,x)\lor G(y) & & (\text{resolve 8 and 10}) \\
\neg C(y,a)\lor G(y) & & (x:=a\text{ resolve 11 and 9}) \\
G(y) & & (\text{resolve 12 and 7}) \\
\perp 
\end{align}
$$

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Q6

### a)

