# CS 245 A1

## Q1

a) Tomorrow will be windy or rainy or both

Tomorrow will be windy (w).  
Tomorrow will be rainy \(r\).

$w\lor r$

b) Tomorrow will be windy or rainy but not both

Tomorrow will be windy (w).  
Tomorrow will be rainy \(r\).

$(w\lor r)\land \neg(w\leftrightarrow r)$

c) I will reply if you send me a text.

I will reply \(r\).  
You send me a text (t).

$t\to r$

d) Dhruv will learn about logic only if he attends the lectures

Dhruv attends the lectures (a).  
Dhruv will learn about logic (l).

$a\to l$

e) If Kai stays up late reading Reddit and does not watch a movie,
he will not be relaxed and will be stressed out.

Kai stays up late reading Reddit \(r\).  
Kai watches a movie (m).  
Kai will be relaxed \(r\).  
Kai will be stressed out (s).

$(\neg m\land r)\to (\neg r\land s)$

f) If I feed my dog and walk her, then my dog will wag her tail and
bark.

I feed my dog (f).  
I walk my dog (w).  
My dog will wag her tail (t).  
My dog will bark (b).  

$(f\land w)\to(t\land b)$

g) If n is prime, then n is a natural number and n is not equal to 1.

n is prime (p).  
n is a natural number (n).  
n is not equal to 1 (e).  

$p\to (n\land e)$

h) Unless I am mistaken, there are two more parts to this question.

I am mistaken (m).  
There are two more parts to this question (t).  

$\neg m\to t$

i) A sufficient condition for passing CS 245 is to get a perfect score
on the mid-term and on the final exam.

I pass CS 245 (p).  
I get a perfect score on the mid-term (m).  
I get a perfect score on the final exam (f).  

$(m\land f)\to p$

j) A necessary condition for completing this game is to win the final boss
fight.

I complete the game \(c\).  
I win the final boss fight (b).  

$b\to c$

<div style="page-break-after: always"></div>

## Q2

a) $((\neg p) \to (q\land r))$

b) $((p\land (\neg q))\leftrightarrow (r\to s))$

c) $(((p\lor (q\land r))\to s)\leftrightarrow t)$

<div style="page-break-after: always"></div>

## Q3

a) It is a formula of Form$(\mathcal{L}^p)$.

* $(p\land (\neg q))$
  * $p$
  * $(\neg q)$
    * $q$

b) It is a formula of Form$(\mathcal{L}^p)$.

* $((\neg(\neg p))\to (q\lor r))$
  * $(\neg(\neg p))$
    * $(\neg p)$
      * $p$
  * $(q\lor r)$
    * $q$
    * $r$

c) It is a formula of Form$(\mathcal{L}^p)$.

* $((p\leftrightarrow q))\leftrightarrow (r)$
  * $((p\leftrightarrow q))$
    * $(p\leftrightarrow q)$
      * $p$
      * $q$
  * $r$

<div style="page-break-after: always"></div>

## Q4

Base Case:

A is propositional symbol, $p$. Then, $p^u = (S[p])^t$ by definition.

Inductive Step:

IH: If $B$ and $C$ are sub formulas of $A$, then $B^u = (S[B])^t$ and $C^u = (S[C])^t$

Case 1: $A = \neg B$

By definition of substitution, $S[\neg B] = \neg S[B]$. Then,
$$
(\neg B)^u = (\neg S[B])^t \\
\neg(B^u) = \neg(S[B]^t) \\
\neg(S[B]^t) = \neg(S[B]^t) \\
LHS = RHS
$$

Case 2: $A = B\star C$

We have $S[B\star C] = S[B]\star S[C]$. Then,
$$
(B\star C)^u = (S[B]\star S[C])^t \\
B^u\star C^u = (S[B]^t\star S[C]^t) \\
(S[B])^t\star (S[C])^t = RHS
$$

By structural induction, our property holds.

<div style="page-break-after: always"></div>

## Q5

Base Case:

$B_1 = A$ is not a tautology by definition, so our property holds.  
Let $P(n)$ denote that formula $B_n$ is a tautology iff $n$ is even.

So P(1) holds.

Inductive Step:

IH: $P(k)$ holds for some $k\geq 1$.

Case 1: $k$ is even

$B_{k+1} = (B_k\to A) = (1\to A)$. This is not a tautology if $A$ is false.  
Since $A$ is not a tautology then $B_{k+1}$ is not true under all truth valuations
and thus, not a tautology.

Case 2: $k$ is odd.
$B_{k+1} = (B_k\to A)$. From our IH, we know that $B_k$ is not a tautology.
Thus from the truth table of $(B_k\to A)$, $B_{k+1}$ is a tautology.

Therefore, by structural induction, $P(n)$ holds.


