## Q1

a) Tomorrow will be windy or rainy or both

Tomorrow will be windy (w).  
Tomorrow will be rainy \(r\).

$w\lor r$

b) Tomorrow will be windy or rainy but not both

Tomorrow will be windy (w).  
Tomorrow will be rainy \(r\).

$(w\lor r)\land \neg(w\leftrightarrow r)$

c) I will reply if you send me a text.

I will reply \(r\).  
You send me a text (t).

$t\to r$

d) Dhruv will learn about logic only if he attends the lectures

Dhruv attends the lectures (a).  
Dhruv will learn about logic (l).

$a\to l$

e) If Kai stays up late reading Reddit and does not watch a movie,
he will not be relaxed and will be stressed out.

Kai stays up late reading Reddit \(r\).  
Kai watches a movie (m).  
Kai will be relaxed \(r\).  
Kai will be stressed out (s).

$(\neg m\land r)\to (\neg r\land s)$

f) If I feed my dog and walk her, then my dog will wag her tail and
bark.

I feed my dog (f).  
I walk my dog (w).  
My dog will wag her tail (t).  
My dog will bark (b).  

$(f\land w)\to(t\land b)$

g) If n is prime, then n is a natural number and n is not equal to 1.

n is prime (p).  
n is a natural number (n).  
n is not equal to 1 (e).  

$p\to (n\land e)$

h) Unless I am mistaken, there are two more parts to this question.

I am mistaken (m).  
There are two more parts to this question (t).  

$\neg m\to t$

i) A sufficient condition for passing CS 245 is to get a perfect score
on the mid-term and on the final exam.

I pass CS 245 (p).  
I get a perfect score on the mid-term (m).  
I get a perfect score on the final exam (f).  

$(m\land f)\to p$

j) A necessary condition for completing this game is to win the final boss
fight.

I complete the game \(c\).  
I win the final boss fight (b).  

$b\to c$

